# i am building something interesting

so recently , i learned about how ai models and how they store knowledge in context or in rag systems, but why not give access of memory to ai? and then i discovered ai doesnt actually know how to store and what to store inside actual physical memory. so i thought lets ccreate an system so we can make ai capable to storing data in memory instead on of temeprory context or rag system. so i thought of building an special kernel in cpp obviously, so ai actually knows what to store inside memory but it still doesnt answer how it will know what to store? lets get back to that point before i was researching and found out about what are photonic neural networks, it just an concpet not implemented in real world i guess but for an photonic neural network everything is bacially like an experince. so everyone knows how ai works right? when you ask anything to an ai model it perform so many matrix multiplication and calculation on vectors and each calculation is almost like input * weight + some bias if available and if we go at hardware level these calculations are performed by transistors which is just an on/off switch and to make the calculation possible electrons need to move. but in an photonic neural network instead of electrons photons or light particle carries information so for an electronic hardware the numbers which are being calculated are represnted as voltage, current and electron but for an photonic hardware we represent the numbers using light intensity, phase, frequency and photons so now the question is using these parameters can we actually perform calculation required for ai model to generate an output ? now here is the interesting part we will never need to move transistors to perform calculation if we prove this is true. what if we could encode that same number into an light beam and that beam goes through some optical hardware . 
now whats an optical hardware if we think todays world then its just transistors in an gpu but for an photonic hardware it can be an normal silicon chip used everywhere but instead of transistors it has a structure that guides light. now to understand this structure we must know that silicon chips in cpu, gpu are different from silicon chips designed for light operations.
it happens like this an light goes through an thin pipe or road called a waveguide inside it light is trapped and cannot escape. we pass the light for a while and then we split light into 2 different paths and one path goes normally but the another path we add some obstacle to it so the light in that path gets delayed even small delay is fine and we then let both path meet again and we output that new light. now for a photonic neural network this new lights intensity becomes or acts as a weight value. 
now this was just one thing or an photonic transistor imagine so many now this optical mesh can now become an matrix. 
did you see that instead of moving transistors just light naturally performed the required calculation for us just by an obstacle producing an delay and then naturally light intensity changed. 
ok now but why we have deviated too much from the main topic and gone too much into hardware and physics. 
now why this even matters to me for my original problem see current ai is like you ask , ai loads context, reasons, answers. but over time systems just summarises the context and eventually its more like summarise the summary which is bascially useless because no information is there. now using this analogy why question is can we build something like where this is no context basically every input is an experience for the ai system but how photonic system is helping achieve that? like its possible to use electron system right? yes it is but if we think about human brain we know that neuron converts electrical signals to chemical systems and electric pulses are very fast like light so why not use light itself using this structure i described above we can i believe make state change over time possible. we will never need to retrive memory, memory will be always inside the structure itself. so we never retrive memory , memory is always there in the system and strcuture of that photonic chip. 
like most things here are hypothetical , but i am currently researching on how can i make this possible. 
let's see how this goes...